saster fans welcome back to another
episode of the cro confidential podcast
I'm your host Sam blonde delighted to be
back here with just an incredible guest
and what I know is about to be an
incredible episode today's guest is
Ashley Kelly better known as AK I've had
the pleasure of being both close friends
and colleagues with Ashley now for a
decade plus and let's see Ashley started
as an SDR at zenefits when I was the VP
of sales out of 50 plus sdrs she was
number one in the company we wanted to
keep her in the S SDR organization so we
promoted her to an Sr manager she was
the number one SDR manager out of dozens
we promoted her again to SDR director
she's gone on to work with me again at
brex where she came in as I think senior
director of SDR we're going to talk a
lot about that today where she was able
to scale the business from about 2
million in ARR is where Ashley joined
and left at like 300 million plus in ARR
and now Ashley is the VP of SDR at
ripling so delighted to have you Ashley
and excited to jump in thank you I'm so
excited to be here looking forward to
the conversation today all right let's
do it this is going to be one of my
favorite episodes because it's all about
a topic I love and I imagine Ashley does
too that topic is outbound sales for
context um about 80% of Breck's Revenue
came from sales outbound um and that's
not necessarily something that I would
be prescriptive or set as a goal for
other companies it's more just whatever
works for your business you double and
triple down on in for brex sales
outbound worked and so we doubled and
tripled down on it I'm going to spend a
few minutes talking about the things
that we did in the very early days at
brex to get outbound off the ground and
then Ashley's going to talk a lot about
really scaling what we had started um
which was an effective outbound process
and then Ashley really owned it beyond
that so I'll talk here for just a couple
minutes and then Ashley we we'll turn it
over to you for much of the rest of the
the
conversation what we hope to do here is
whatever stage of company you are we can
map to where you are without bound and
give you a bunch of tactical ideas on
things to do to be more effective and
continue progressing so on day one the
way that I approached it at brex and I
suggest others approach it is you do not
want to start with purchasing uh a
sequencing tool purchasing a system that
gives you contact information and
Blasting your ICP I've talked about this
before but you really want to start with
who you are targeting being in your own
network and so for brex what that meant
was we started with things like first
deegree LinkedIn connections that were
in our ICP so those are founders and
people in finance at early stage
startups we also leveraged our investor
Network that included YC which was
hugely beneficial because YC companies
were squarely in our target market but
it also included the other nonc
investors where we were asking for
introductions to their portfolio
companies we then when we moved Beyond
people where there were like warm
introductions and connections that we
can leverage by saying we were a YC
company those sorts of things we moved
on to more creative outbound programs
I've talked a little bit or a lot about
a champagne campaign where that we ran
where we picked a few hundred uh
companies that were in the Bay Area sent
them a bottle of champagne and a
handwritten note um that is outbound
it's very targeted outbound and it has a
much greater probability of working than
this sort of like blasting of the
universe in sequences the next thing
that we did was we put up a bunch of
billboards throughout San Francisco and
we targeted the people that were in the
areas that we put those Billboards up
and again the probability of people
replying to an email after they had seen
our Billboards and knew what we did was
significantly higher than the
probability of somebody who has no idea
who we are or what we do replying to an
email that they received there are a
bunch of other things that you can do
that are separate from Billboards these
can be people that have some connection
to the company where Maybe
uh downloaded a white paper or visited a
website just some engagement with the
business that you're really focused on
Beyond just blasting emails Into The
Ether so with that Ashley you join brex
when we are about $2 million in ARR and
I would say for a lot of businesses if
you're a software business that maps to
less ARR because zenitz made money on
interchange our gross margins were less
than software gross margins and so we
think about it from a pure gross profit
standpoint we're still pretty early and
AKA we had some systems in place we had
some effective outbound in place and
your mandate was to take what existed
and really scale it so let's start there
we hired you as a senior director which
is a little bit unconventional but
you're an in network hire so that made a
lot of sense one of the first things you
were tasked with doing was hiring
sdrs so let's start there and maybe I'll
preface and and finally I'll shut up but
maybe I'll preface this with for me SDR
has always been the most challenging
role for me to hire within the sales
organization because people that are in
AE roles people that are in manager
roles and more senior you're really
leaning on their historical performance
back Channel references to help guide
you in making those hires SD s are are
oftentimes fresh out of college or
moving from a different career path and
so th these are hard hirers to make with
a greater risk or greater probability of
failure yet somehow you have been
extremely successful and I think your
failure rate was near zero so let's talk
about that let's start with sourcing how
do you identify the right profile to
recruit from given the limited uh
experience Real World Experience first
you mentioned that hiring me at at the
director level first I think that really
is very rare I think hiring if you can
hire someone that you trust first
absolutely do that but I'm I came in as
a director and I was actually making the
cold calls sending the sequences things
like that so I do think it's really
important to make sure that the level
that you're bringing in because if you
just start with someone that's very
Junior they're not going to know how to
do those things if you don't have the
process in place yet so like context of
like wherever your business is at like
that's very important when I think about
the interview process of of what you're
saying as far as what is the profile
that you look for and how do you make
sure that someone is going to be the
right the right person to bring on board
in the very early days yeah there a lot
of the times they're Junior they're
they're fresh out of school and what's
different is that you're not able to
like in an AE role or any other
experience role you can't go back to
their previous work experience and ask
them were you hitting quota were you
doing these different milestones and
were you top at the board or anything
like that so a lot of what we focused on
in the very beginning was what are the
key characteristics of what makes an SDR
successful and some of those things for
for me are are they coachable do they
have the ability to navigate change and
failure because that's that's the name
of the game in a startup how organized
are they strr work is like very
structured and and rigid day in and day
out and so if they don't have those
types of skills to stay on top of their
workload like they're going to fail and
then like probably one of the most
important is like the hunger and the
motivation and so like why do they want
to be in sales and so those are the
buckets that I've always thought through
as far as what are the what are the
things that we look for in a successful
last year makes sense and then to to
take a step back the first at least
three and maybe more hires that you made
at the individual contributor SDR level
were all in network hires that you had
worked with at your previous company
that you brought over so I think maybe
the the first takeaway is and this is
true in SDR this is true in AE this is
true uh in virtually ining role if you
can make in network hires um the
probability of success there is
significantly higher with SDR in
particular that doesn't really scale
because there are so many people that
this is their first role out of school
and so then you talked about some
characteristics that you look for when
you're when we think about sourcing
candidates when you work with the
recruiting team or when you're reaching
out to folks on LinkedIn how does that
map to any characteristics you're
looking for are are you basically saying
Target anyone with a 4-year degree what
are the things that you use at the very
top of what I'll call the sourcing
funnel to help identify um potentially
people that will be successful before
you even get to the conversation stage
yeah so when we're thinking about like
the actual profile which again is tough
because you can't go plug in different
logos that they've worked at we look at
a lot of schools that they've gone to so
I've had a lot of success over the years
with honestly I'll call it like the Work
Hard Play Hard schools like the Santa
barbaras Chica the Chic states of the
world but but schools that have
reputation of people that have the work
hard play hard because that's how
startup mentality is too a lot of
athletes I've seen be very successful so
I think people that have joined sports
teams that they understand what hard
work looks like they understand what
being part of a team looks like but that
they're also have that coachable factor
and also being a I was not a college
athlete but I would imagine being one
would require quite a bit of time
management and so we've seen a lot of
them be successful in the role too
sority fraternity backgrounds definitely
people that have done internships so
people that were working and balancing
both their school workload with having
to make money on the side have all been
like areas that we look at in on like
their LinkedIn and stuff really smart
Okay so I went to University of Missouri
shout out to the Tigers I think what
you're saying is from an SDR recruiting
standpoint that's like the Stanford of
the Midwest and so you look for like big
state social universities you look for
people who were Collegiate athletes
number of those folks are coming to mind
that have been top performers in
organizations that I've worked with you
look for extra curricular activities
that can be things like fraternity
sororities and worked their way through
college and those are some signals that
you can lean on from a sourcing
standpoint and then I would say also if
you're not just hiring directly from
from college if you're actually getting
people that have some work experience
which I highly recommend especially for
firsttime hires if you don't have
systems and process in place I've had a
ton of success with hiring recruiters
because recruiting and Sorcerers have
very transferable skills with having to
manage a pipeline having to call people
out of the blue sell them on a roll
things like that yeah those are probably
my favorite to hire that have had
experience important point and very
tactical takeaway which is most people
do not hire a senior director of SDR as
their first SDR hire they they hire sdrs
and when you're hiring for that profile
rather than hiring fresh out of school
tool which may make sense when the
business is much larger you actually do
want to hire someone with real world
experience and a recruiting background
or maybe even like a selling background
that wasn't in Tech sales for somebody
that's looking to break into Tech sales
those are interesting profiles for very
early hires is that the um right way of
thinking about it yeah I was an account
manager at a staffing firm for a year
and a half doing outside sales before I
became an SDR it's a weird rule of thumb
that we have in Tech sales for some
reason is that you have to start as an
SDR but I'm so grateful that I did and I
think there's a lot of other people that
would say the same thing because you
really just start from the ground up
learning the systems the tools the
company and and you're able to grow from
there awesome makes sense Okay so we've
determined a little bit of the uh
profile that we want to hire for
dedicated outbound folks which are sdrs
um you talked about some characteristics
that you look for let's talk about the
interview process itself and how you sus
out uh the the characteristics or
intangibles that you just described what
what's the interview process yeah pretty
simple interview process we do a hiring
manager screen so a a phone screen at at
first and then they go through an actual
interview panel so those buckets that I
talked about as far as coach ability to
navigate change organization hunger and
motivation like all of those have actual
specific interview questions that roll
up to that theme and so each whether
it's a Sr manager or a peer or whoever
you have on the panel each person is
going to be responsible for drilling
into to those themes and being able to
at the end of the interview process like
actually fill out the scorecard saying
yes I think this person is coachable yes
I think I think they're able to stay
organized and be able to get the job
done I will say I maybe because I've
been doing this for so long I think I've
HED over a thousand strs in my career
but I can tell usually by the phone
screen whether or not this person's
going to be able to do the job and a lot
of that is because they if they're
driving the conversation and and driving
more of the interview in such a junior
role if they're able to do that like
more times than not I I have a lot of
faith that they'll be able to do that
when talking to prospects on the film
you have any favorite questions to ask
or like conversation topics at this
point you said you've hired over a
thousand sdrs you're one of um very few
if um none other that have maybe ever
done that at this point your intuition
is probably more sophisticated than most
if not all and so then if you're founder
if you're a first-time SDR manager what
are the types of things that you would
be asking about or topics to include in
the
interview yeah so this one's kind of
cheesy but when I look back at all of
the top performers I've ever had like I
know how they answer this question and
it's do you do you love to win or hate
to lose more and if I look at anyone
like everyone loves to win right but I
think the people that hate to lose even
more and are like so fearful of losing
and will make sure that they do they
stop at nothing to be successful are the
people that I want to hire and so
figuring out whether you actually
specifically ask that question or not
figuring out when we talk about the
hunger and motivation it's not just I
want to be in sales because my dad was
in sales or I want to be I want to make
money like it's really I don't want to
fail I want to grow my career I want to
take this company to the next level I
think I found that in myself all the
time too was like I want to be a VP and
it was like I wasn't going to stop until
that happened and so I think figuring
out like what truly motivate someone is
the key to it okay one thing that comes
to mind for me as you were talking is
like people that have a little bit of
clarity of thought around where they see
their career progressing I think
sometimes sales can be a bit of a
catchall for people that just don't
really know what to do and sure I'll try
this sales thing out but I think if
someone is much more clear that this is
what they want to do and can articulate
why and how they want their career
progress to progress what success looks
like to them in the role those sorts of
things um it it is I think better signal
that they will be successful than um
somebody who's less clear around how
they expect their career unfolding over
the course of the next several
years yeah I think that's super fair and
then also one like thing that always
makes me nervous is when Junior people
are asking what does the company look
like in 5 years from now and you're like
the company's only been around for one
year so that's a little bit hard for me
to answer for you but it's you can tell
that's something they were taught in
school to ask in an interview process
and so really like avoiding the textbook
things and and getting into like their
their business acument too okay we've
talked a little bit about hiring if you
can hire in network that Dr risks one's
success in a major way otherwise look
for these qualities and characteristics
as we said if it's your first SDR hires
make sure that they have some work
experience because they will just likely
be more successful we talked about the
different roles that maybe you look for
if they do have that work experience now
let's talk a little bit about about an
environment that sets these folks up for
Success sdrs are the most Junior
employees in the company and you really
want to create an environment where
there's some direction I don't want to
call this like micromanagement but I
want to call it I do want to call it
structure and so you have done a
phenomenal job when you hire people
just where they come in and they know
exactly what to do and so let's talk a
little bit about that how do you create
an environment that sets up the most
Junior employees in the company for
Success yeah and I I do think there's a
fine line between micromanagement and
process and structure it's funny we
spend like what 13 years of our lives in
school more if when you go to college
and you you start and you have a
syllabus you have grades you have all
these things and you're in such a
structured environment and then they get
out of school and it's go be successful
in the work Workforce and so I think
there's like a huge shift that happens
when people start in their in their
first careers and so I do think it's
really important to have that stuff in
place and I and you don't have to be at
a point where you have revops and
enablement and all these like different
resources around you to actually create
that structure but I think first and
foremost it's like figure like what does
a successful day look like for a rep and
so giving them like almost like blocking
off different calendar chunks of this is
when you make your calls this is when
you actually are scrubbing your accounts
and Prospect and adding the right
contacts into sequences and so they know
exactly where to spend their time
outbound is like definitely what you put
in today doesn't show up until tomorrow
and so it can get really emotionally
high and low for reps and so it's really
important to make sure celebrating the
small winds every day did you get enough
activities in did you how many
conversations did you have with
prospects even if you're getting hung up
on and not over able to overcome
objections what are the takeaways and
how can you improve your process like
the next day with that kind of stuff but
taking a step backwards I'll say if you
tell a rep to make 70 dials guess what
they're going to make 70 and have a very
hard stop at 70 and so eliminating like
the the what I'll call just like
checking the box type of activities
throughout the day and like truly
getting to a point where you have what
I'll call like an SDR sales equation and
working backwards off of knowing what
someone's quota is but basically like
how many meetings do they need to
schedule for that to happen how many
accounts need to go into a sequence for
that to happen and truly defining like
what working account actually means and
so all of those things if you can get
the Reps to buy in them is going to
allow you to continue to build out your
structure and process too so what comes
to mind is I'm hearing you to talk
through some of these things I think
there's this what I'll describe as a
balance between structure and autonomy
that you want to reach the right balance
of and in the early days there's
probably a bit more autonomy in that
balance because what you want to do is
you want to tell the new hires look like
here is what exists today here is what
has worked for us here is like how I
would suggest spending your time at the
same time we're still in learning mode
so if you have ideas things you want to
try with the ultimate goal in mind of in
the early days probably generating more
opportunities like the concept of
generating demand um so you provide
structure you provide education but you
also allow for an environment where
ideas are supported and promoted and
over time Rippling today is several
hundred million dollars in AR there's
probably a lot more structure that
exists for a new SDR than the very first
Rippling SDR who came in and was trying
to figure out what that process should
look like does that sound right yeah
absolutely I think it's even something
new hirers ask me all the time they're
like if you were in my shoes starting as
an strr today what would you do and I
say the same thing I go I say go find
the top performer Shadow them replicate
their process and then add your own like
Special Sauce to it don't come in trying
to reinvent the wheel yeah I definitely
would say that and really you do have to
iterate on it every six months every
year so we started outbound about a year
ago and there was no structure in place
we now have some structure but still am
I 100% confident that if I sat next to
one rep compared to someone else that
they're doing the exact same thing no
and to me that's a big red flag and
that's something that we're investing a
lot of time in right now is to re Vamp
our Playbook retrain the Reps make sure
everyone is doing more consistent things
that way we're able to scale because
otherwise if it's if not it's messy and
like your foundation just crumbles makes
sense one slight tangent that came to
mind as you were talking that we didn't
touch on but you talked about one SDR
doing something radically different from
the other even today when you do hire
your first SDR hire two because they
will be able to share learnings with one
another and really accelerate the time
to Effectiveness because they're trying
and failing they're trying and
succeeding and then they can share both
the failures and the successes with
their peer yeah and that's a really
great way to pressure test your
structure and process because is it the
person or is it the process that's
broken too yep good segue you talked
about what I'll call activity metrics
which is like you don't want to say make
50 dials a day send X number of emails a
day because they're going to they're
going to focus on the activities
themselves and not um the outcomes
and so with that in mind let's talk
about how we measure performance
so how do you determine what to measure
I think we we could take this two two
different directions in terms of uh
performance one is what is the right
performance metric sales qualified
opportunities pipeline activations
closed Revenue like number of of
different things that we could use and
then the second thing which I think we
actually shouldn't spend time on because
it varies so greatly business by
business which is what should the quota
be and the quota is going to greatly
depend on the segment that you're
selling into the type of product that
you're selling how expensive it is so
let's let's stick specifically to
something that I I think is more
actionable which is what what should the
quota be comprised of what should we
incentivize the outcomes for and so you
started at brex where did we start we
started with sales qualified opportuni
so more towards the top of the funnel I
think this is a very traditional place
to start for sdrs especially in the
beginning there's a few different
schools of thought around it first being
well what are you solving for a lot of
the times what you're solving for in the
beginning is volume and getting more
demos on the calendar for AES the other
piece too is thinking about what can the
SDR control and there's a lot of times
that businesses will set them up for a
revenue Target and that's really outside
of an str's control I know we did move
into that at brex and we should talk
through that I'm glad that we did it
obviously tripled the amount of Revenue
that the or was bringing in but I really
do think it's dependent on where you're
at as a business and if AES have far too
many demos on the calendar you start to
look at the Quality threshold are we do
we need to be doing more Discovery up
front or is there something wrong with
our ICP or whatever it is and like
you're wanting to narrow in on specific
Industries so I think it's really
important to think about like where your
business is before you swing the
pendulum all the way down to the revenue
side for an SDR org makes sense I agree
and so I think what we're both saying is
in the early days the metric that s sdrs
should be measured their performance
should be measured off of is sales
qualified opportunities some version of
qualified opportunities and I remember
at brex we were we had a clearly defined
sales opportunity like rubric it was
basically something like the level of
seniority the type of company and type
of company can mean both number of
employees and which industry they were
in and I think it was like they had to
show up for the call and if you got a
director Plus at a company that was over
50 employees in one of these two or
three Industries to show up and receive
a demo you received credit for a sales
qualified opportunity and so there was
like no
subjectivity the one exception was maybe
that if we reached out to a director
which was the qualifying level of
seniority and they passed it to maybe a
manager like a finance manager
accounting manager something like that
we would still schedule that call and
then I think it was at the rep's
discretion whether not to give credit
for the opportunity yeah and then it was
is there plans to move forward with this
is this is there a follow-up meeting is
it something that is actually viable for
the business and then and that's exact
so that's what we did at bre yes I think
there's like other flavors of that too
where you hear about like bant which is
budget Authority need and timeline we
have a version of that at ripling it
does get a little hairy between the sdrs
and AES and so as you start to scale
like it's something that you really have
to pay attention to that's the age-old
thing like the like conflict between the
two orgs that ends up happening but in
the early days I think you just you
really got to keep it simple okay so
good segue as we continue down this
performance metric
process the way that I think about this
is the further up the funnel you go
which sales qualified opportunity is
towards the top what you're solving for
is more quantity over quality and the
further down the funnel you make the SDR
performance measurement like what their
quota is based off of you are shifting
that balance from quantity to Quality
and so in the early days there are two
things that likely exist the first is
you really are solving for quantity like
the bottleneck for growing faster is
getting more demos on calendars more
opportunities in the pipeline and so it
makes a lot of sense to incentivize more
qualified opportunities and not
necessarily further down the funnel the
other thing that doesn't exist in the
very early days is sophisticated data
around things like which type of
companies convert which type of personas
convert which companies spend more money
or generate more revenue on the product
and so as the company progresses you
these things change one you may actually
start to have a bit of a quality problem
you may be getting demos on calendars
that reps are like this is bad why is it
being scheduled I'm laughing because I
like remember this day to a te where you
told me the AE managers are complaining
about the quality of your demos you
should take that personally I was like
Roger that I took I just took it
personally and now we so you must have
yeah yeah it's been years and I still
remember it okay these things change you
may start to want to solve for more
quality not exclusively quality and then
the other thing is you start to have
more data and I remember one data point
in particular that we used Ashley to
help guide our decisioning around what
the U measurement of performance is we
started noticing that the opportunities
that AES were scheduling from their
outbound activity were much higher
quality and higher quality both in terms
of conversion rates and in terms of the
revenue that the opportunities generated
and I think the number was something
like the average AE outbound opportunity
generated three X the revenue of the
average SDR opportunity and that makes
sense right like AES are incentivized on
closed Revenue they have a revenue quota
and sdrs are incentivized on quality
qualified opportunities and so they
aren't incentivized to care how much
revenue or the conversion rates that
their opportunities are generating and
so over time we made the decision to
switch the incentive metric from sales
qualified opportunities to revenue I
don't know if you have any thoughts
there I have lots but anything just in
terms of the impact that had and how
maybe others should be thinking about
making that
transition yeah I'll say we were in a
unique position because to your point
and I it was like e-commerce that we saw
that was really successful and so that's
where we started directing SCS within
their books that we had assigned them
accounts or where wherever they were
prospecting they should focus on
e-commerce but you have to give SRS
enough direction of where to hunt in
order for them to be successful and so
that's where a lot of that the data
pieces that you were talking about came
into place and so we did we worked very
closely with with sales Ops and we were
able to come up with account scoring we
were able to come up with um a few other
like things that they could triangulate
within the account one being the Alexa
ranking which was huge for us um which
showed us like how much traffic they had
on the website which would indicate that
they would be a big spender and so once
we were able to give them like here are
the three things that you should look at
the account level and that will give us
a good indication that this is going to
be a good customer for BRS it was like
floodgates were open at that point and
and of course we did incentivize them
then on the revenue piece there were
some people that I don't want to like
bring the numbers up but I mean like
Millions monthly that they were bringing
in from a revenue perspective which was
really cool to see so yeah we we more
than 3x what the strr org was sourcing
um previously when they were on in S2
quota but again like you need those data
points in order for an SDR to be
successful like today if I were to tell
one of my reps they're going to go after
Tech they're going to go after like the
main industries you have to know enough
about your business in order to point
them in the right direction okay so
here's maybe the takeaway it is when you
have confidence around lead scoring
around your ability to predict at the
account and Persona level the likelihood
of someone to convert and the amount of
Revenue that company will generate for
your business it's probably a good
thought
exercise to just go what would happen if
we changed the quota from S2 sales
qualified to further down the funnel
like revenue and for brex the answer was
we think we'll generate a lot more
revenue and the way that we made this
decision and I actually recommend folks
make many decisions is you solve for one
very specific thing when making big
decisions like the one that we're
discussing and that is which path do we
believe generates the most revenue for
the business and then there may be some
push back and consequences for making
that decision the things that come up
frequently with this one are but the SDR
doesn't have control over the
opportunity once it goes to the AE and
what if an SDR is paired with an AE that
has a lower conversion rate than a
different AE and that's outside of their
control
and those types of decisions what all
call like second order impacts are
things that you can solve for and design
a process around separately but the
overarching way that the decision should
be made is this going to generate more
revenue for the business and if the
answer is yes you probably want to make
that change and it certainly did for
brex and and Ashley I remember when we
made that change the perception of SDR
Within the business um your the
perception of Ashley like the perception
of you these things like dramatically
improved because SDR was having such a
larger impact on the business the
company generating Revenue because of
this almost contrarian change because
most people and companies are
incentivizing sdrs on a top of the
funnel metric and we went against the
grain and tied folks to revenue and
everybody won s you hired a bunch more
sdrs sdrs were making a bunch more money
the business was growing faster and that
was impactful to the business and and
certainly like a contrarian change that
I applaud you for thank you yeah I think
the only other thing I would say is a
lot of it depends on on the deal cycle
too we have we had a pretty short one
that was like very transactional I think
and when you're at a more Enterprise
company and it takes six to nine months
for a deal to close it's really hard to
put sdrs on a revenue quota because
they're really only in the role for N9
months to a year and a half and so you
just don't get as
much like per production out of them in
that sense because they're having to
they're not let me say that differently
they typically when you have an SDR on a
monthly quota you get more out of like
performance and if you have someone on a
revenue quota but they're only seeing
that Revenue every six to nine months it
makes it really difficult yeah that
sounds right I think there's a lot of
nuance with this specific decision one
of which being what are the average
cycle times I I think sub 30 days you do
have this feedback loop that is um more
immediate and so sub 30 days like you
you can tie the go to revenue I think
greater than 30 days you maybe in this
gray area where you can measure both
something like qualified opportunities
and revenue so the there's a balance
between the two but again different like
we're not going to go through every Edge
case on the call
okay good segue let's talk about and
maybe finish on scaling so how do you
think about scaling the team in terms of
when it's time to hire more sdrs and
then we'll move on from there to how
sdrs progress within the business but
what do you have some sort of a rubric
or something that you use to guide you
in terms of how large the team should be
when it's time to hire when it's time to
pause talk us through your approach
there yeah I I think it always goes back
to per rep production so I think once
you start seeing reps that are
successful and they're hitting the
numbers that you've set as quotas and
hitting it consistently and you have
confidence that we can bring more people
on and still be able to do that I think
that's like the first like gut check
that that I've always had um obviously
there's like the math component which is
the CAC and the payback periods and does
it financially make sense for the
business to bring more on I think you
also have the risk of what is your Tam
and so making sure that you're not
spreading it too thin and bringing on
too many people I think both of us have
seen over the years companies that have
solved for scaling just by putting butts
in seats and that's obviously not the
right way of doing that so I think yeah
making sure that your reps are are
productive and hitting the numbers that
they need to one of the ways that I
outside of the rep attainment that I
look at is really like our ability to
penetrate our TM and so I look at
metrics that are like account to stage
one so the number of accounts that
they're working that actually become
demos account to how many of those
become stage two so qualified
opportunities and there's a percentage
that we actually have to be able to
maintain in order for outbound to scale
and so those are like the top of funnel
metrics that I pay like very close
attention to daily and weekly and then
as you do start to bring on more sdrs
you start thinking about the ramp time
how long does it actually take to ramp a
rep and get them up to productivity and
then how do you improve that and then
the other piece I would say is the
manager to SDR ratio I think is is super
super important so as you start to scale
your team I remember at zenitz at one
point I think I had 35 sdrs reporting to
me as a J and that was terrible so don't
do that but I think one thing is like a
blessing at Rippling is we actually are
very conservative with the number of
reps that report to managers and that
really helps from like a day-to-day
coaching perspective especially in this
like remote environment when managers
have a little bit more bandwidth to help
coach their reps day in and day out
you're going to see their production
increase and so we we keep around like
the eight sdrs to one manager ratio
today really insightful the story that
comes to mind that in H sight seems just
like an obvious and silly mistake is and
it and it reinforces your ham points at
zenitz we had some historical data
around SDR performance and Effectiveness
in terms of their ability to add squo
and it was on a spreadsheet it was like
we haven't really seen diminishing
returns at the SDR level for the first
20 sdrs and then the 30 SDR and then 40
SDR and
one summer we decided we were going to
hire like 300 and I think we I think we
made some assumptions around out of
these 300 only 200 of them are going to
make it through training and through
their first month and so we we Plugged
In Like A churn assumption and some
diminishing performance assumptions but
the thing that we didn't really take
into consideration and it reinforces
something that is a bit contrarian on
the sales side I've always said like
more sales people does not equal more
sales and the equivalent on the SDR side
is more sdrs does not necessarily equal
more opportunities um or more demand and
the thing that we didn't take into
consideration is when you add so many
new sdrs you you have to go further and
further away from the core Tam where
you've had success and zenefits could
serve any company in the United States
in terms of our ability to onboard and
serve them but there were Industries
segments
personas that had much lower conversion
rates and like much lower probability
for Success when we onboarded them and
when we added all of these new sdrs into
the mix not only were they less
effective than the more tenured existing
reps they actually made the existing
reps far less successful because we had
to tap into this Tam based
that people were less likely to convert
and so if you were an SDR previously
it's inits you were going after mostly
tech companies and like some companies
On The Fringe or whatever and then all
of a sudden you're going after companies
that are not in San Francisco or New
York where you have some brand
recognition you're going after
construction companies in Mobile Alabama
and the um existing sdrs that had
already been successful weren't able to
continue being successful because of
that decision around continuing to scale
and so that's maybe just a story
reinforcing The Tam consideration that
you
highlighted okay last thing let's talk
about on like the theme of scaling how
sdrs progress within the business you
started as an SDR let's talk a little
bit about what sdrs move on to within
companies how you think about that and
will'll end on that positive note yeah
I'm obviously super bullish the SDR
function spent my whole career focused
on it and outside of all like the
amazing Revenue things that that it
drives there's also the career
progression within the business I look
back now and the top AES I've ever
worked with all started as sdrs most of
my managers I'd say 20 of my 30 today
were sdrs at ripling same thing with all
the previous companies I've worked at I
think making sure that you have some
sort of career path and leveling and
something set up for them to move
through the company is really important
I think every business should think
about sdrs as being like the Future
Leaders of of their company and so
that's one of the first things that I
did when I came to ripling and was put
that in place because I like you said I
started as an SDR I know how how
impactful it can be to continue to grow
your career staying whether they stay in
the SDR or if they move into account
Executives we've moved people into
marketing into recruiting into customer
success obviously into management and so
I think there's really the possibilities
are endless I think what I always find
as a compliment and a problem for me is
that people are constantly wanting to
pluck people off the SDR team because
they have the the grit the experience
that they've done from the ground up
getting to know and and really like
they've created a reputation for
themselves as being successful too and
so that's to your point in the very very
beginning if you can hire someone that
you trust that in network like why not
promote from within because there's a
lot less risk yeah I think one thing
that is missed in the sort of
spreadsheets and and something that came
up periodically at bre um before we made
the change that we highlighted around
the incentive structure
we had AES our top AES were generating
more outbound Revenue um because we
really focused on AE outbound um in in
addition to SDR outbound and our top a
oftentimes were able to generate more
outbound Revenue than many of the sdrs
and so there was this conversation
internally that should be had which is
like why aren't we just hiring more AES
if they can both gener they can both
Source the revenue that the sdrs are
sourcing and close it and the answer
wasn't in the spreadsheets but the
answer was like but all of these people
used to be sdrs at brecks and when we
move the best SDR that's generating the
most outbound Revenue to an AE of course
they're going to continue generating
much of the outbound Revenue that they
were sourcing as an SDR because of that
training that they realized and not only
does SDR contribute the sourced Revenue
R contributes many of the best AES best
sales leaders and just like best people
within the company because to your point
over time it provides this recruiting
ground where if you're an AE manager you
I I remember and I can think of the
people you are begging to hire quote
unquote hire Ashley's best sdrs rather
than what I'll describe as like people
off the street that do not have the the
sort of like brecks or outbound specific
context so something to keep in mind um
I'm obviously a huge proponent of both
the SDR function and the concept of
outbound that SDR provides so much of
AKA with that I think we have exhausted
much of outbound scaling SDR these
things that you are world class at thank
you for joining the Pod and see you soon
thanks everybody for listening bye
thanks y